Our primary purpose is, to build a system that will detect brain tumors at an early stage so that, people can take proper treatment from the very beginning. In this research, we have worked with fMRI brain imaging data and Convolutional Neural Network architecture. We did binary classification, which detects either there has any brain tumor or not. As all the data were in 3D NIfTI images so, after collecting the data, we did pre-processing, which includes image conversion, data segmentation, data augmentation, and data normalization. Then, we separated our data into a training dataset, validation dataset, and testing dataset. After that, we did data training, validation, testing and for that purpose, we have used the TensorFlow library and Keras library. We have performed six different types of CNN architectures VGG16, VGG19, Inception V3, ResNet50, DenseNet121, and Xception. These models are already pre-trained with millions of ImageNet images. So, we do not need to create a CNN model on our own. But we did not take the Dense layer and fully connected layer of the CNN models, so we made our Dense layer with 1024 neurons and fully connected layer with two classes. These CNN architectures gave us different types of results and accuracy when we tested them. Based on the test accuracy, we did comparison between these six models and we have found 3 best models: Inception V3, DenseNet121 and VGG19. After that, we did voting ensemble manually. For that, we did binary value of Test dataset. ’0’ means ’No’ tumor and ’1’ means there has tumor. After analyzing the results of those models, we have taken Inception V3, DenseNet121 and VGG19 as they managed to produce higher accuracy among all our CNN models. Then, we performed ensemble method with those 3 models. When our best 3 models giving more than or equal to 2 ’Yes’ votes on that time, we told that there presents a tumor in the brain. Our study showed that, the accuracy we achieved after applying ensemble technique, it was better than the individual accuracy provided by the CNN models.
